---
layout: post
permalink: /codeforces/problemset/problem/987/C/
title: 987C. Three displays
pcode: 976A
qname: Minumum Binary Number
oj: codeforces.com
author: Manoj
categories: dynamic-programming
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<span class="tag-boxed">Dynamic Programming</span><span class="tag-boxed">Brute Force</span><span class="tag-boxed">Implementation</span>

It is the middle of 2018 and Maria Stepanovna, who lives outside Krasnokamensk (a town in Zabaikalsky region), wants to rent three displays to highlight an important problem.

There are n displays placed along a road, and the i-th of them can display a text with font size si only. Maria Stepanovna wants to rent such three displays with indices i < j < k that the font size increases if you move along the road in a particular direction. Namely, the condition s<sub>i</sub> < s<sub>j</sub> < s<sub>k</sub> should be held.

The rent cost is for the i-th display is c<sub>i</sub>. Please determine the smallest cost Maria Stepanovna should pay.

Hints
-----

*1. Think by choosing which element you will end up in minimum operations of finding the rest two.*

Solution
--------
It’s clear from the problem that the given array C or S cannot be sorted, as it can change the order of elements. Additionally, S<sub>i</sub> < S<sub>j</sub> < S<sub>k</sub> is a constraint.

We now have to figure how to choose 3 elements such that its cost is minimum and S<sub>i</sub> < S<sub>j</sub> < S<sub>k</sub>.

Since S<sub>i</sub>, S<sub>j</sub>, S<sub>k</sub> need not to be consecutive, there are lot of possibilities to pick 3 strictly increasing elements, which we can do by a very naive brute force solution. But this will be an inefficient approach considering the time limit.

But the same can be done in a time complexity O(n<sup>2</sup>) by thinking a bit different.

The basic idea is to pick an element S<sub>j</sub>. S<sub>j</sub> - because it makes our job easier. *Why?* Consider we are taking S<sub>i</sub> then there are lot of possibilities of finding S<sub>j</sub> and S<sub>k</sub>. Instead if we take S<sub>j</sub> then we know that there is just one element on its right and left. So after picking S<sub>j</sub>, find an element S<sub>i</sub> toward its left such that S<sub>i</sub> < S<sub>j</sub> and its cost C<sub>i</sub> is the minimum of all costs in the left part. Similarly we have to find S<sub>k</sub> such that S<sub>k</sub> > S<sub>j</sub> and its cost C<sub>k</sub> is the minimum of all costs in the right part.

Store sum of such C<sub>i</sub>, C<sub>j</sub>, C<sub>k</sub> and find minimum among all which is the answer.

Code
----

{% highlight c++ %}
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

#define inf 1000000000
#define ll long long

void fast() {
  ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);
  cin.tie(0);
  cout.tie(0);
}

int main() {
  fast();
  ll n,i,j,s[3001],c[3001],ans=inf,k;
  cin >> n;

  for(i=0;i<3001;i++) {
    s[i]=inf;
    c[i]=inf;
  }

  for(i=0;i<n;i++) cin>>s[i];
  for(i=0;i<n;i++) cin>>c[i];

  for(j=0;j<n;j++) {    
     ll ans1=inf,ans3=inf,ans2=c[j];

    //LEFT PART
    for(i=0;i<j;i++) {
        if(s[j] > s[i]) ans1 = min(ans1,c[i]);
    }
    
    //RIGHT PART
    for(k=i+1;k<n;k++) {
        if(s[k]>s[j]) ans3=min(ans3,c[k]);
    }

    //FINDING MIN OF ALL MIN SUMS
    ans = min(ans, ans1+ans2+ans3);
  }
 
  //IF ANS IS INF OR GREATER IT MEANS NO SUCH 3 ELEMENTS EXIST
  if(ans >= inf) cout << -1;
  else cout << ans;

  return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

*Written by Manoj*
